[MUSIC]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So one other thing,
I'm tempted to do this live but
I don't know the interface so it would
be a lot of, what did I do over here?
I'm gonna copy it over, I guess I will.
So let's write a spec for this.
With that, full disclosure,
I am going to copy a spec that
I've wrote over the lunch hour and
just kind of talk through what I'm doing
and we'll just work through this together.
So in this project, if you go npn.test,
it's going to kick off karma and
we're using authentim.js,
which is a headless
browser to go run its test
against and I have three passing tests.
So I have one in AppComponent and
two in HomeComponent.
This may be a little small.
I saw somebody craning their head,
I apologize to that.
And so let's do one for users.
So we'll go new, type script file,
we'll go usersComponentspec.ts.
Nope.
And so the first thing that
you need to do is import
your Jasmine methods
that you're going to use.
And so this comes right
from Angular 24/testing, so
we'll do describe, expect, it.
Then, we're going to import our
component that we want to test,
which is users from
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Users component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Then,
I wanna say describe.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm just
gonna cheat here a little bit.
And I'm gonna cheat a lot actually.
Don't get mad.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah.
No, what happened?
Dang it.
Gosh.
All right, I'm back on track.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Users Component here.
So let's write a test.
-> here and
we'll go it should be
named
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: UsersComponent.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Like so, make sure,
yep, so, another fat arrow in here.
Now you realize by me actually doing this,
you now have to do this
in the code challenges.
Just saying.
All right, so
let's write our assertion,
expect(Users.name).tobe('Users')
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I think I got this.
I'm getting some, all right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If this actually
works, and I get this test to pass,
Scott's gonna do the robot for us.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
if I was really truly doing TDD here,
then I would've actually made this
fail first but, [SOUND] boom.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I know that's, man,
I was so tempted just jump there and
sing with you.
So, my work here is complete.
Components with life cycle hooks and
a test.
Any questions before I drop
the co-challenge on you?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes sir, in the back.
>> Speaker 2: Question from chat.
Is there any way to get resolve
functionality in component?
So to prevent it from firing up before
it gets results from an API call?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I do not know.
So in other words, you're saying
a blocking operation of in terms of
component router or not component router
but in Angular 1 you had, in this route,
I have this promise that has
to resolve before it renders.
I do not believe there is a mechanism
in place currently to do that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah,
I haven't heard of any kind of resolve,
route resolve functionality.
Next question.
>> Speaker 2: Just to go deeper into
that question there, isn't a resolve,
but again tying into,
this all happens around routing so there
isn't a resolve on the current router, but
the router has lifecycle hooks that you
can tie into so you would use those
lifecycle hooks to prevent a component
from being rendered by the router.
>> Speaker 3: So, those lifecycle hooks
can handle asynchronous operations?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so, we'll get
a lot more into this over the next
couple of days.
A couple of things is one you
have the Elvis operator to say
don't render this thing until this exists.
In other words, so it's this optional
thing of, if this doesn't exist,
then just don't do anything with this yet.
Is well as by using the async pipe which
is really, really cool, you can say,
when this asynchronous thing comes
in from your service as a promise or
an observable,
then go ahead and render this.
And so it's really cool because you can
actually bypass the component altogether
and you not just say.
With a promise, it's like,
make this call then, and then you say,
you take the payload and
you assign it to a property,
local to your local state within
your controller in Angular 1.
You can still do it that way,
but now using observables,
you can simply say, hey,
service, go give me this thing.
And it's returning an observable and
then you can bind to that thing directly
using the async pipe it will
just render when it happens.
So to that I think the lifecycle host
really take care of a lot of that and
I would much rather have the ability to
hook into the lifecycle as opposed to
doing a blocking operation on a resolve.
And with observables, you take it even
a step further of you just say, I'm gonna
push this to the view when this is ready
and I don't have to block anything.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
there is a can activate lifecycle hook for
the router that gives you access
to the current parameters and
the next component
that's trying to render.
And from there, you can return true or
false even after asynchronous operation.
True, which means go to the next
component being routed.
False means stop routing.
So that's what you would use.
But there really isn't an elegant way of
getting the result of that promise onto
the object for the next route other
than tying it to the next parameter.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And that really, so
that mechanism is good for authentication.
In other words,
can I even go to this route?
You can simply say, do they have,
for instance, a jot, a token,
does it exist, are they authenticated?
Okay, let them go.
And so having that ability to hook into
that route event is good for that but
actually passing data and blocking data to
pass it into the next like route change,
I'm unaware of anything at this point.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I wouldn't do that,
I would stay away from that pattern,
then you'd have messy state